# Temporary repository for research project at ERIBA, Groningen
This is a introductionary description of relevant packages and dependecies. Created repository is for learning purposes and includes personal notes for my own refenrece. All of the presented scripts takes previously alligned reads as its input.

## BAIT
BAIT is executed in a Linus enviroment and outputs different files that holds information such as SCE's and CNV's. Further analysis with different scripts are then possible. For example, determining breakpoints of SCE's with breakpointR. Initial errors were avoided by only including cells that are of considderable good quality. Good quality could be defined as at least 5% background noise and with a coverage over 2%. For more info on what makes a good quality see supplementary information in [Direct chromosome-length haplotyping by single-cell sequencing](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27646535) paper. Also, pay attention to spikey-ness when quality is evaluated. 

## Aneufinder
link to scripts can be found [here](https://github.com/mattsada/StrandSeq-Groningen/tree/master/Aneufinder). Aneufinder can also be utilized to define SCE's and CNV's. However, at this moment script is not working and only pre-analyzed output files have been available for inspection. Possible to run script with, or without, seperate config file. All scripts can be found in provided link.

## breakpointR
link to scripts can be found [here](https://github.com/mattsada/StrandSeq-Groningen/tree/master/breakpointR). BreakpointR takes BAIT analysed `.bed` files as it's input and determines breakpoints for identified SCE's. Similar quality-problems like with BAIT, were encountered when executing this analysis. Ouput from breakpointR can be further characterized with strandPhaseR for extenssive haplotyping of strand-seq data. Seperate config file is also available. However, current script runs perfect without any errors and outputs all required files (plots .Rdata and browserfiles.)

## WCregions script
link to scripts can be found [here](https://github.com/mattsada/StrandSeq-Groningen/tree/master/WCregions%20script). This script is for extracting WC regions from `.Rdata` generated by breakpointR. These regions will be saved as a `.txt` file and will be used as input for running strandPhaseR. keep in mind to source the path to where the `.Rdata` is stored. For example,

```{r}
source("/Users/Mattsada/Dokument/Groningen/DATA/breakpointR-NW150212-VII_good_171215/data")
```
Scripts is then executed as such:

```{r}
printWCregions("~/DATA_ANALYSIS/Adam/breakpointR /breakpointR-NW150212-VIII_good_171215/data", file='WCregions-result.txt', regionSize=5000000)
```
 
## strandPhaserR
link to scripts can be found [here](https://github.com/mattsada/StrandSeq-Groningen/tree/master/strandPhaseR). This script is executed to extract high-resolution haplotyping information, based on previously aligned reads. Input `.bed` files are drawn from output from breakpointR. Output files include VCF-files and browserfiles

## invertR
link to scripts can be found [here](https://github.com/mattsada/StrandSeq-Groningen/tree/master/invertR). Input files for this script is `.bed` files analysed with BAIT. this script identifies inversions based on these data. 